# CD Task Group Remote Meeting 27/03/2019

## Agenda
**highlights**  
1. We have (some) meeting funding from several sources to speed up the development of this standard. 
We need feedback from Matt, Quentin, Wouter, Niels and others on exactly which tasks need to be worked on "in person." GBIF would like a working model (or at least an exmample) by Biodiversity Next in October.  
2. Some of you have already started (that I know about - the FM and Smithsonian folks, and also Connie Rinaldo, and work is going on in the ICEDIG CDD Group on Use Cases that we'll be able to use also) on your tasks, or at least planning to work together. Thank you!  
3. We will answer questions, review contents and use of the TDWG CD Repo structure together, 
add / edit any missing bits (so no worries, just be sure to note them), set up recurring meeting time, and get next tasks started.  
4. AOB. [see notes from last online meeting for reference](2018-11-14_tg_remote.md)

## Meeting notes
1. meeting using Zoom 27 and 28 March 2019
#### Present at meeting of 27th
Ramona Walls, Stan Blum, Matt Woodburn, Mareike Peterson, William Ulate, FM: Sharon Grant, Kate Webbink; Mike Trizna (anyone else?), Connie Rinaldo, Quentin Groom, Kevin Love, Deb Paul, Jim Beach

#### Summary from recent email thread
From Matt  
- One or two physical meetings would be a good idea, if possible coordinated with the ICEDIG All Hands meeting (Helsinki, 1st week of June) and/or Digital Data in Biodiversity Research (2nd week in June). I should be at the former, and could be available around the latter if funding were available. If not, I could join remotely.  
- They should be closed working meetings with a small number of key people, and draft ideas / data / models prepared in advance to take into them
We shouldn’t expect to make much progress at biodiversity_next beyond wider discussion and socialising the work   
- While there’s potential and support for moving faster than the existing timelines, we shouldn’t create artificial deadlines around biodiversity_next that would rush the work


#### Summary notes from Wed meeting 27 March 2019

Deb reviewed the cd repo structure and navigation aid. Then we all reviewed progress and shared what needs/must be done next and the potential for speeding up progress.
 
Deb to send out reminder to all to please review the Use Cases  
Stan notes that use case review will spur potential actions or additions needed.

- **Meeting:** Matt and Stan are going to meet to review the Draft data management guidelines document.  
- **Meeting:** Matt with Sharon et al FM, to share work they’ve done so far to see if it can help Matt get a working / draft data model for us to review. (+ plus invite those on list in group)  
- **Meeting CD TG Recurring**: 4th Wednesday of each month (2 meetings, one early, one late).  
- **Meeting in person**: July for tasks 3 4 (after July 13th).
- Send note to see: who can make this? who can fund it? (can we make a July timeline)?

[Task 1](https://github.com/tdwg/cd/projects/1). **Quentin** will loop in new student: **Elke** who will assist **Connie Rinaldo**, et al to review / look for any existing standards and terms related to collections data. Collating what has been done already and checking nothing has been missed. Connie to send summary - post to gitHub.  

**Task Leads:** What do we do about filling the task leads? 
Role is to herd cats, document progress. Others can help with the specific standards-related questions.

**GitHub**  
- What’s your gitHub name?   
- Deb send note: everyone needs a gitHub Account.  
- Stan can add people to the TDWG team so they’ll have cd/repo access and can then add / edit (pull and push? or just pull requests?)  
- Stan: add people to TDWG repo  
- Deb and Matt: add assignees (use the spreadsheet, then freeze the sheet and use gitHub).  
- Deb: set up github walk through

# CD Task Group Remote Meeting 28/03/2019

#### Present at meeting of 28 March
Matt Woodburn, Debbie Paul, Jim Beach, Quentin Groom, Tim Robertson, Andrea Hahn, Dave Smith, Sarah Vincent, Wouter Addink, David Bloom, Matt Woodburn, William Ulate 

**From Matt (summary of recent email thread)**  
- One or two physical meetings would be a good idea, if possible coordinated with the ICEDIG All Hands meeting (Helsinki, 1st week of June) and/or Digital Data in Biodiversity Research (2nd week in June). I should be at the former, and could be available around the latter if funding were available. If not, I could join remotely.  
- They should be closed working meetings with a small number of key people, and draft ideas / data / models prepared in advance to take into them 
- We shouldn’t expect to make much progress at biodiversity_next beyond wider discussion and socialising the work  
- While there’s potential and support for moving faster than the existing timelines, we shouldn’t create artificial deadlines around biodiversity_next that would rush the work  

- **Deb**: set up GitHub Walk through, Matt (or other person) to explain how to use the github projects.  
- From **Tim**: goal is to have collection registry at GBIF - not necessarily GBIF branded (not sure what to call it yet), supporting/linking to citation tracking, attribution, and specimen use - e.g. taxonomic treatments (PLAZI, ...). First though, is to just bring back up GRBio data as it is.  
- **Wouter to Tim**: what will define a collection from the GBIF perspective? DiSSCo is mainly interested in collections from a scientific use perspective (not collections grouped on historical events or collectors, like VonSiebold collection, but grouped capabilities in collection holding institutes so these can be combined in a unified collections catalogue (e.g. taxonomic group, geographic grouping, grouping by type of preservation). Tim shares this is not defined yet, the first step is just to bring GRBio back up as it was.  
Tim, Deb, ... what is the connectivity going to be between these resources? (IH is not going away, it also now has a API, ...)  
- **JB**: Interested in physical parameters (cabinets, square footage, cost of square footage, staffing, ...) how much investment is the world making in collections?  
- From **Tim**: Who is building dashboards and their timeline? WA: Synthesys+ (year 3) building dashboards for DiSSCo, DiSSCo new website will have a dashboard too. DP: please see https://www.idigbio.org/content/shining-new-light-world%E2%80%99s-collections for more who are building dashboards.  
- **Matt - Tim - Quentin**? - Elke (elke.durwael@plantentuinmeise.be) data model discussion ...Possible small meeting for preliminary model discussions (soonish).  

**Use cases review and formatting**: David Bloom, Deb and Elke to reformat the use cases to make them less specific to particular platforms and more in the format of a true use case (https://github.com/tdwg/cd/tree/master/reference/use_cases). Matt suggests we use the RDA Use Case Format Template which is designed to support getting from use cases to data model and concept elements.  

- Expect email to get task group leads assigned.  
- **TO DO**: abstract for Biodiversity Next, Matt and Deb and William Ulate  
- Next meeting 4th Wednesday of April - expect use case review and update on progress on the data model vision.
